feat(side-panel): initial design guidance (#32)
vmware-clarity/clarity-guidance: 1026-sidepanel-design-guidance.md

---
category: component design guidance
state: draft
created: 2024-10-18
updated: 2024-10-21
---

# Side Panel Design Guidance

> [Side Panel](https://clarity.design/documentation/side-panel) component displays supplementary contextual actions and information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [side panel](https://clarity.design/documentation/side-panel) component displays supplementary contextual actions and information.
```

## Guidance

> - **Must** use Side Panels when you have more content or complex interactions than a modal. It is recommended to be used for any tertiary actions or sub-processes. You can use [modals](https://clarity.design/documentation/modal) when the information presented is more concise and the interactions are less complex.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Must** use a side panel when you have more content or complex interactions than a modal. It is recommended to be used for any tertiary actions or sub-processes. You can use a [modal](https://clarity.design/documentation/modal) when the information presented is more concise and the interactions are less complex.
```

> - **Must** use a side panel when you have more content or complex interactions than a modal. It is recommended to be used for any tertiary actions or sub-processes. You can use a [modal](https://clarity.design/documentation/modal) when the information presented is more concise and the interactions are less complex.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** use a side panel when more content or complex interactions are required than a modal can accommodate. Side panels are recommended for tertiary actions or sub-processes. Use a [modal](https://clarity.design/documentation/modal) when the information is more concise, and the interactions are simpler.
```

> - **Must** Keep it simple. Side Panels can include components like links, cards, images, or text. Avoid putting complex components in a side panel, like tables or accordions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Must** keep it simple. Side panels can include components like links, cards, images, or text. Avoid putting complex components in a side panel, like tables or accordions. 
```

> - **Must** keep it simple. Side panels can include components like links, cards, images, or text. Avoid putting complex components in a side panel, like tables or accordions. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** keep side panels simple. They can include components like links, cards, images, or text, but avoid complex components such as tables or accordions to ensure clarity and usability.
```

> - **Must** provide options to dismiss a side panel through buttons to cancel/proceed, or through a close button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** ensure users can easily exit the side panel and maintain control over their navigation by providing options to dismiss it, such as buttons for canceling or proceeding, along with a close button.
```

> - **Must** NOT stack side panels since it would make it hard to dismiss them and confuses the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Must not** stack side panels since it would make it hard to dismiss them and confuses the user.
```

> - **Must not** stack side panels since it would make it hard to dismiss them and confuses the user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must not** stack side panels, as this can make them difficult to dismiss and create confusion for users regarding their navigation.
```
